
# Registering New Conversions 

The function to register a new output conversion is `fmt_register_formatter`, declared in `fmt.h`. 

```
int fmt_register_formatter(fmt_formatter formatter, const char * id);
```

This function defines the conversion specifier character spec.
Thus, if spec is `'Y'`, it defines the conversion `%Y'.
You can redefine the built-in conversions like `%s', but flag characters like `#' and type modifiers like `l' can never be used as conversions;
calling `register_printf_function` for those characters has no effect.
It is advisable not to use lowercase letters, since the ISO C standard warns that additional lowercase letters may be standardized in future editions of the standard. 

The handler-function is the function called by `printf` and friends when this conversion appears in a template string.
See section [12.13.3 Defining the Output Handler][1], for information about how to define a function to pass as this argument.
If you specify a null pointer, any existing handler function for spec is removed.

The arginfo-function is the function called by `parse_printf_format` when this conversion appears in a template string.
See section [12.12.10 Parsing a Template String][2], for information about this. 

The return value is `0` on success, and `-1` on failure (which occurs if spec is out of range). 

You can redefine the standard output conversions, but this is probably not a good idea because of the potential for confusion.
Library routines written by other people could break if you do this. 
