
# Conversion Specifier Options 

If you define a meaning for `%A', what if the template contains `%+23A' or `%-#A'?
To implement a sensible meaning for these, the handler when called needs to be able to get the options specified in the template. 

Both the handler-function and arginfo-function accept an argument that points to a `struct printf_info`,
which contains information about the options appearing in an instance of the conversion specifier.
This data type is declared in the header file `printf.h`. 

_Type:_ **struct printf_info**
: This structure is used to pass information about the options appearing in an instance of a conversion specifier in a `printf` template string to the handler and arginfo functions for that specifier.
It contains the following members: 

`int prec`
: This is the precision specified.
The value is `-1` if no precision was specified.
If the precision was given as `*', the `printf_info` structure passed to the handler function contains the actual value retrieved from the argument list.
But the structure passed to the arginfo function contains a value of `INT_MIN`, since the actual value is not known. 

`int width`
: This is the minimum field width specified.
The value is `0` if no width was specified.
If the field width was given as `*', the `printf_info` structure passed to the handler function contains the actual value retrieved from the argument list.
But the structure passed to the arginfo function contains a value of `INT_MIN`, since the actual value is not known. 

`wchar_t spec`
: This is the conversion specifier character specified.
It's stored in the structure so that you can register the same handler function for multiple characters, but still have a way to tell them apart when the handler function is called. 

`unsigned int is_long_double`
: This is a boolean that is true if the `L', `ll', or `q' type modifier was specified.
For integer conversions, this indicates `long long int`, as opposed to `long double` for floating point conversions. 

`unsigned int is_char`
: This is a boolean that is true if the `hh' type modifier was specified. 

`unsigned int is_short`
: This is a boolean that is true if the `h' type modifier was specified. 

`unsigned int is_long`
: This is a boolean that is true if the `l' type modifier was specified. 

`unsigned int alt`
: This is a boolean that is true if the `#' flag was specified. 

`unsigned int space`
: This is a boolean that is true if the ` ' flag was specified. 

`unsigned int left`
: This is a boolean that is true if the `-' flag was specified. 

`unsigned int showsign`
: This is a boolean that is true if the `+' flag was specified. 

`unsigned int group`
: This is a boolean that is true if the `'' flag was specified. 

`unsigned int extra`
: This flag has a special meaning depending on the context.
It could be used freely by the user-defined handlers but when called from the `printf` function this variable always contains the value `0`. 

`unsigned int wide`
: This flag is set if the stream is wide oriented. 

`wchar_t pad`
: This is the character to use for padding the output to the minimum field width.
The value is `'0'` if the `0' flag was specified, and `' '` otherwise. 
