
# Defining the Output Handler 

Now let's look at how to define the handler and arginfo functions which are passed as arguments to `register_printf_function`. 

**Compatibility Note:** The interface changed in GNU libc version 2.0.
Previously the third argument was of type `va_list *`. 

You should define your handler functions with a prototype like: 

```
int function (FILE *stream, const struct printf_info *info, const void *const *args)
```

The stream argument passed to the handler function is the stream to which it should write output. 

The info argument is a pointer to a structure that contains information about the various options that were included with the conversion in the template string.
You should not modify this structure inside your handler function.
See section [12.13.2 Conversion Specifier Options][1], for a description of this data structure. 

The args is a vector of pointers to the arguments data.
The number of arguments was determined by calling the argument information function provided by the user. 

Your handler function should return a value just like `printf` does: it should return the number of characters it has written, or a negative value to indicate an error. 

_Data Type:_ **printf_function**
: This is the data type that a handler function should have. 

If you are going to use `parse_printf_format` in your application, you must also define a function to pass as the arginfo-function argument for each new conversion you install with `register_printf_function`. 

You have to define these functions with a prototype like: 

```
int function (const struct printf_info *info, size_t n, int *argtypes)
```

The return value from the function should be the number of arguments the conversion expects.
The function should also fill in no more than n elements of the argtypes array with information about the types of each of these arguments.
This information is encoded using the various `PA_' macros.
(You will notice that this is the same calling convention `parse_printf_format` itself uses.) 

_Data Type:_ **printf_arginfo_function**
: This type is used to describe functions that return information about the number and type of arguments used by a conversion specifier. 
